Now that we have the tools
that want to help us
make sure that the code we are pushing
to the interwebs is not broken at
least help us as much as they can
with making sure it's not broken.
We might be ready to blast off and
deploy some code for
all of the Internet to enjoy.
So Houston, mission control.
I believe at this point,
we've linted, we've auto-formatted,
we've worn our NASA-themed T-shirt,
[LAUGH] and we are ready for blast-off.
So let us just take a quick
moment to review for the, again,
those of us that are kind of new to
a lot of the lingo here which again,
is completely arbitrary and
sort of cultural.
When we talk about deploying
to production versus sometimes
we deploy to development servers.
But in general,
we run our development server locally, but
we have production out in the real world.
There's probably a good reason why
we use the word production, but
I don't honestly know what it is.
So if anybody knows, fun fact,
put it in the thing.
[LAUGH] But the idea here is that we
have very different use cases for
these two environments.
In the dev environment,
we know that the user is us,
the call is coming from inside the house,
if you will.
And the idea is that we're trying to
iterate on our code base as quickly as
possible.
We're trying to make those changes because
I got somebody over here being like,
the side is down, help,
this sort of panic moment when
we're running as fast as possible.
We're moving fast and
possibly breaking things, and
we want to kind of be making
choices in the way that we're
running this local server
that reflect that.
For example, we may wanna be assuming that
we are running a very modern browser so
that we don't have to go through
all of the steps of transpiling or
chain rewriting the syntax of JavaScript
to support older browsers, for example.
But in the production environment,
I, the developer,
I'm not the audience, the end user
of this website is the audience.
And so our focus is not to get something
that reloads as fast as possible and
uses all the fresh hotness to make me
as fast of a bug fixer as possible.
But rather to make sure that
we are delivering a solid,
robust, working [LAUGH] ideally
site to actual users in the world.
And so that's where, yeah, in Vite,
we have a few different kind
of default Faults here.
For example, in the dev server,
we again, target those newest browsers.
Because we kinda assume that if we're
web devs working with modern tools,
we have updated our browser in less
than 10 years, let's say [LAUGH] ago.
And yeah, we're watching for
those changes, we're automatically
reloading whenever one module changes,
we're kinda putting it in.
But in the production build as we saw
earlier, the settings are different.
We might be targeting older browsers
because we want to also support users who
are not JavaScript developers.
And not have other things
going on in their lives and
downloading the hottest freshest browser
to ever come off the assembly line.
Anyway, the preview server
that we used earlier that goes
along with the NPM run build,
once we run that, nothing is served.
We can run NPM run preview to serve up all
of those files that were built in dist.
And again, those commands came out of
the box with our Vite starter package or
create Vite package, and
it's not gonna update, right?
This is to make sure that you can test out
sort of quality control your built site,
not that you can be quickly editing, and
then quickly seeing the new change,
and quickly editing again.
So very different focus.
And this is all to say,
there's different settings for
what happens in these environments.
And so sometimes that also involves
having different environment variables.
For example, maybe you have an API token,
something like that.
This is out of the scope of this course,
but you might have certain data secrets
that you don't want to commit to
GitHub in your local environment that
are different from the ones that
your production site would be using.
So maybe you've got your own
personal dev token for GitHub, but
your company has a different one
that they use when they're accessing
the GitHub API for your fancy open-source
helper website, I don't know.
The point being the two environments
have their very different needs and
very different aims, and
so we have to be conscious of
whether we're in one or the other.
And Vite is already conscious
of that with those defaults.
But we can also configure Vite to
tell it what we want it to do.
So we can customize all kinds of
different options around Vite,
including, for example,
where we're intending to host this site.
For example,
is this gonna be at anjana.dev?
That's it.
Or is it gonna be @anjana.dev/selfie-cam?
Or is it gonna be
@projects.anjana.dev/selfie-cam?
What's gonna happen here?
And we can also tell it things
like how the build should work.
For example,
which browsers do I wanna target?
Do I know that some of my users
are on even older browsers
than the default in Vite?
I can configure that.
And there's all kinds of other settings,
we're not gonna go into it all.
There's a whole Vite course you
can take that I'm sure covers
a whole bunch of other tips and tricks.
But suffice it to say that we can
create a vite.config.js file.
And it seems that at the moment,
there is starting to be
a little more consensus around
a lot of projects use this
projectname.config.js now.
And perhaps we will see more
of those .config.js files.
But in any case, that's Vite 1,
it's just dictated if
you have a v.config.js file and
it conforms to the way Vite
conflg should be created,
basically, what a Vite config is.
And similar to our ES lint configs and
all these other things is essentially
a JSON file, or in this case, a JavaScript
object that has keys and values,
and keys and values that override any
defaults that we might want to do.
So, for example, there's a there's
a base option where I can
tell it where this site is going to be,
what the base path is,
so essentially,
where that kinda slash starts.
And then things like, I want
the server to run on a different port,
or I want the build to target different
browsers and things like that.
Now, we're not gonna worry about all
of the different config options,
you can read all about
them on the Vite docs.
But if we wanna deploy a project site,
we're probably gonna have some kind
of slash project name in our URL.
So, that probably is one that we're gonna
wanna set is this base URL for our site.
And what that looks like is gonna
depend on where we're hosting our site.
So there's a whole bunch of different
places, the different services and
companies essentially that offer
really convenient platforms for
deploying your sites and
hosting them even up there.
And then it will integrate
with your GitHub account and
just sort of automagically update
your website, if you have the right
config settings, whenever you
push to your GitHub repository.
There's a whole bunch of options, and
we're not gonna really go into them.
But for example, Netlify and Vercel
are a couple that you might see out there.
For example,
somebody might share a demo project and
it's myselficam.netlify.com or
something like that, right?
So these are a couple of popular ones.
But since we are already using GitHub,
we can also use GitHub's
built-in solution for this,
which is called GitHub Pages.
So this is a whole whole thing.
And there's all kinds of settings,
and whatever, and configuration, and
everything, you can read all about it.
But essentially,
when we have a Git repository, and
I believe if we're on the free plan,
it has to be a public repository.
But when we have one, we can also deploy
a static site here to GitHub pages,
essentially by just
tweaking some settings.